feat(documentation): miniJen introductory post. (#6097)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/03/03/2023-03-03-miniJen-is-alive.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "miniJen is alive!"
tags:
- jenkins
- miniJen
- riscv
- aarch64
- arm32
- fosdem
authors:
- gounthar
opengraph:
image: /images/post-images/2023/03/03/2023-03-03-miniJen-is-alive/image2.png
discourse: true
---

= miniJen

The Jenkins multi-architecture CPU instance

image::/images/post-images/2023/03/03/2023-03-03-miniJen-is-alive/fosdem_2023_booth_display.jpg[miniJen as a FOSDEM display on the booth,839]

== What is that contraption?

Nope, it's not a robot of some sort, it won't move by itself.
It's not https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cerebro[Cerebro] from Professor Xavier; no, it can't https://all3dp.com/2/raspbery-pi-drone-simply-explained/[fly] either.

> What you're looking at is a Jenkins "`https://www.jenkins.io/doc/#what-is-jenkins[instance]`".

Reviewer: Simplify the markup?
```suggestion
What you're looking at is a Jenkins link:/doc/#what-is-jenkins[instance].
```

> It is composed of a https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/using/using-agents/#using-jenkins-agents[controller] (the "`brain`" or conductor) and three https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/using/using-agents/[agents] (the workers or musicians if we continue a little further with the metaphor).

Reviewer: Use site local links so that the links work when building the development site.
```suggestion
It is composed of a link:/doc/book/using/using-agents/#using-jenkins-agents[controller] (the "`brain`" or conductor) and three link:/doc/book/using/using-agents/[agents] (the workers or musicians if we continue a little further with the metaphor).
```
